.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH install.config 5 "Lava Version 1.0 - Sept 2007"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBinstall.config\fR
.SS Overview
.BR
.PP
.PP
This chapter describes the use, format, and contents of the 
install.config file.
.SS Contents
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu About install.config
.HP 2
\(bu Parameters
.RE
.SH About install.config
.BR
.PP
.PP
The install.config file contains options for Lava Standard Edition 
installation and configuration. Use \fBlsfinstall -f install.config\fR 
to install Lava Standard Edition using the options specified in 
install.config.
.SH Template Location
.BR
.PP
.PP
install.config is a template you edit to specify the options for your 
new Lava Standard Edition installation.
.SH Format
.BR
.PP
.PP
Each entry in install.config has the form:

.PP
NAME="STRING1 STRING2 ..."


.PP
The equal sign = must follow each NAME even if no value follows and 
there should be no spaces around the equal sign.
.PP
A value that contains multiple strings separated by spaces must be 
enclosed in quotation marks.
.PP
Blank lines and lines starting with a pound sign (#) are ignored. 
.SH Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
#**********************************************************
.br
# Name:     install.config
.br
#
.br
# Purpose:  Lava installation options file template
.br
#
.br
# Format:
.br
#    o  Each line is in the format of LSF_OPTION_NAME="VALUE"
.br
#    o  Options can only appear once in the file
.br
#    o  Blank lines and lines starting with a pound sign (#) 
.br
#       are ignored. 
.br
#
.br
# Instructions:
.br
#    1. Edit install.config to specify the options for 
.br
#       your cluster. Uncomment the options you want and 
.br
#       replace the example values with your own settings.
.br
#    2. Run ./lsfinstall -f install.config 
.br
#
.br
# See install.config in the Lava Reference Guide for details.
.br
#**********************************************************
.br
#
.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_TOP="/usr/share/lsf"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# Full path to the top-level installation directory
.br
# The path to LSF_TOP must be shared and accessible to all
.br
# hosts in the cluster. Cannot be the root directory (/).
.br
# File system containing LSF_TOP must have enough disk space
.br
# for all host types (approximately 300 MB per host type).
.br
# Required argument
.br
#
.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_ADMINS="lsfadmin user1 user2"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# List of Lava administrators
.br
# The first user account name in the list is the primary Lava 
.br
# administrator. Cannot be the root user account.
.br
# Lava administrator accounts must exist on all Lava hosts before
.br
# installing Lava.
.br
#
.br
# The primary Lava administrator account is typically named
.br
# lsfadmin. 
.br
# It owns the Lava configuration files and log files for job
.br
# events. 
.br
# It also has permission to reconfigure Lava and to control
.br
# batch 
.br
# jobs submitted by other users. It typically does not have 
.br
# authority to start Lava daemons. Usually, only root has 
.br
# permission to start Lava daemons.
.br
# Required argument
.br
#
.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_CLUSTER_NAME="cluster1"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# The name of the Lava cluster
.br
# Must be 39 characters or less, and cannot contain any 
.br
# white spaces. Do not use an Lava host name.
.br
# Required argument
.br
#
.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_TARDIR="/usr/share/lsf_distrib/4.2"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# Full path to the directory containing the Lava distribution
.br
# tar files
.br
# Default: parent directory of the current working directory 
.br
#          where lsfinstall is running.
.br
#          For example, if lsfinstall is running in 
.br
#          /usr/share/lsf_distrib/4.2/lsf4.2_lsfinstall,
.br
#          the default is /usr/share/lsf_distrib/4.2.
.br
#
.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_ADD_SERVERS="hosta hostb hostc hostd"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# List of Lava server hosts to be added to the cluster
.br
# Specify a list of host names separated by spaces.
.br
# The first host listed is the Lava master host.
.br
# Default: Local host where lsfinstall is running
.br

.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_ADD_CLIENTS="hoste hostf"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# List of Lava client-only hosts to be added to the cluster
.br
# Specify a list of host names separated by spaces.
.br
# Default: None
.br

.br
# -----------------
.br
# LSF_QUIET_INST="n"
.br
# -----------------
.br
# Do not display Lava installation messages
.br
# Default: LSF_QUIET_INST="n"


.SH Parameters
.BR
.PP
.SH LSF_ADD_SERVERS 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_ADD_SERVERS="\fR\fIhost_name \fR[ \fIhost_name...\fR]\fB"\fR 
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lists the hosts in the cluster to be set up as Lava server hosts. The first 
host in the list becomes the Lava master host in lsf.cluster.\fIcluster-
name\fR.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any valid Lava host name
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_ADD_SERVERS="hosta hostb hostc hostd"
.br
hosta is the Lava master host.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
The local host where \fBlsfinstall\fR is running
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_ADD_CLIENTS
.SH LSF_ADD_CLIENTS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_ADD_CLIENTS="\fR\fIhost_name \fR[ \fIhost_name...\fR]\fB"\fR 
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lists the hosts in the cluster to be set up as Lava client-only hosts.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any valid Lava host name
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_ADD_CLIENTS="hoste hostf"
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
None
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_ADD_SERVERS
.SH LSF_ADMINS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_ADMINS="\fR\fIuser_name \fR[ \fIuser_name ... \fR]\fB"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lists the Lava administrators. The first user account name in the list is 
the primary Lava administrator in lsf.cluster.\fIcluster_name\fR.
.PP
The Lava administrator accounts must exist on all hosts in the Lava cluster 
before installing Lava
.PP
The primary Lava administrator account is typically named lsfadmin. It 
owns the Lava configuration files and log files for job events. It also has 
permission to reconfigure Lava and to control batch jobs submitted by 
other users. 
.SS CAUTION
.BR
.PP
.SS You should \fBnot\fR configure the root account as the primary Lava administrator.
.BR
.PP
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
User accounts for Lava administrators must exist on all hosts in the Lava 
cluster before running \fBlsfinstall\fR.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_ADMINS="lsfadmin user1"


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
None--required variable
.SH LSF_CLUSTER_NAME
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_CLUSTER_NAME="\fR\fIcluster_name\fR\fB"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Defines the name of the Lava cluster. Do not use an Lava host name.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any alphanumeric string containing no more than 39 characters. The 
name cannot contain white spaces.
.SS Recommended Value
.BR
.PP
.PP
 You should not use a valid host name as the cluster name, but the 
same general principles apply to naming your cluster as naming hosts.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_CLUSTER_NAME="cluster1"

.SH LSF_QUIET_INST
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_QUIET_INST\fR=\fB"y\fR\fI \fR/\fBn"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Do not display \fBlsfinstall\fR messages.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_QUIET_INST="y"


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Display all messages. (LSF_QUIET_INST="n")
.SH LSF_TARDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_TARDIR="/\fR\fIpath\fR\fB"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Full path to the directory containing the Lava distribution tar files.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_TARDIR="/usr/share/lsf_distrib/4.2"


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
The parent directory of the current working directory where 
\fBlsfinstall\fR is running (../current_directory).
.SH LSF_TOP
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_TOP="/\fR\fIpath\fR\fB"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Top-level Lava installation directory. 
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Must be an absolute path to a shared directory that is accessible to all 
Lava hosts. Cannot be the root directory (/).
.SS Recommended Value	 
.BR
.PP
.PP
The file system containing LSF_TOP must have enough disk space for 
all host types (approximately 300 MB per host type).
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_TOP="/usr/share/lsf"


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
None -- required variable
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBlsfinstall\fR(8), lsf.cluster(5)
