.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH lsf.conf 5 "Lava Version 1.0 - Sept 2007"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBlsf.conf\fR
.SS Overview
.BR
.PP
.PP
Installation of and operation of Lava is controlled by the lsf.conf file. 
This chapter explains the contents of the lsf.conf file.
.SS Contents
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu About lsf.conf
.HP 2
\(bu Parameters
.RE
.SH About lsf.conf
.BR
.PP
.PP
The lsf.conf file is created during installation by the Lava setup 
program, and records all the settings chosen when Lava was installed. 
The lsf.conf file dictates the location of the specific configuration 
files and operation of individual servers and applications. 
.PP
The lsf.conf file is used by Lava and applications built on top of it. 
For example, information in lsf.conf is used by Lava daemons and 
commands to locate other configuration files, executables, and 
network services. lsf.conf is updated, if necessary, when you 
upgrade to a new version. 
.PP
This file can also be expanded to include Lava application-specific 
parameters.
.SH Location
.BR
.PP
.PP
The default location of lsf.conf is in  /etc.  This  default location  
can  be  overridden  when  necessary by either the environment 
variable LSF_ENVDIR or the command  line  option \fB-d\fR available to 
some of the applications.  
.SH Format
.BR
.PP
.PP
Each entry in lsf.conf has one of the following forms:

.PP
NAME=VALUE

.PP
NAME=

.PP
NAME="STRING1 STRING2 ..."


.PP
The equal sign = must follow each NAME even  if  no value follows  and 
there should be no space beside the equal sign. 
.PP
A value that contains multiple strings separated by spaces must be  
enclosed in quotation marks.  
.PP
Lines starting with a pound sign (#) are comments and are ignored. Do 
not use #if as this is reserved syntax for time-based configuration.
.SH Parameters
.BR
.PP
.SH LSB_API_CONNTIMEOUT 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_API_CONNTIMEOUT=\fR\fItime_seconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timeout in seconds when connecting to the Batch system.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any positive integer or zero
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
10
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_API_RECVTIMEOUT
.SH LSB_API_RECVTIMEOUT 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_API_RECVTIMEOUT=\fR\fItime_seconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Timeout in seconds when waiting for a reply from the Batch system.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any positive integer or zero
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
0
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_API_CONNTIMEOUT
.SH LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_CMD_LOG_MASK=\fR\fIlog_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the logging level of error messages from Lava Batch 
commands. 
.PP
For example:

.PP
LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK=LOG_DEBUG


.PP
Batch commands log error messages in different levels so that you can 
choose to log all messages, or only log messages that are deemed 
critical. The level specified by LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK determines 
which messages are recorded and which are discarded. All messages 
logged at the specified level or higher are recorded, while lower level 
messages are discarded. 
.PP
For debugging purposes, the level LOG_DEBUG contains the fewest 
number of debugging messages and is used only for very basic 
debugging. The level LOG_DEBUG3 records all debugging messages, 
and is not often used. Most debugging is done at the level 
LOG_DEBUG2.
.PP
The commands log to the syslog facility unless LSB_CMD_LOGDIR is 
set. 
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
The log levels from highest to lowest are:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_EMERG
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_ALERT
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_CRIT
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_ERR
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_WARNING
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_NOTICE
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_INFO
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG1
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG2
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG3
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
LOG_WARNING
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_CMD_LOGDIR, LSB_DEBUG, LSB_TIME_CMD, LSF_LOG_MASK, 
LSB_DEBUG_CMD, LSF_TIME_CMD
.SH LSB_CMD_LOGDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_CMD_LOGDIR=\fR\fIpath
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the path to the Batch command log files.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
/tmp


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK, LSF_LOGDIR
.SH LSB_CONFDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_CONFDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the path to the directory containing the Lava configuration 
files.
.PP
Lava Batch configuration directories are installed 
under LSB_CONFDIR.
.PP
Configuration files for each Lava cluster are stored in a subdirectory of 
LSB_CONFDIR. This subdirectory contains several files that define Lava 
Batch user and host lists, operation parameters, and queues. 
.PP
All files and directories under LSB_CONFDIR must be readable from all 
hosts in the cluster. LSB_CONFDIR/\fIcluster_name\fR/configdir must 
be owned by the Lava administrator.
.PP
Do not redefine this parameter after Lava has been installed. To move 
these directories to another location, use lsfsetup and choose the 
Product Install option to install configuration files in another 
location. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_CONFDIR/lsbatch


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_CONFDIR
.SH LSB_DEBUG
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_DEBUG=1\fR | \fB2
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets the Batch system to debug.
.PP
If defined, Lava Batch will run in single user mode. In this mode, no 
security checking is performed; do not run the Lava Batch daemons as 
root. 
.PP
When LSB_DEBUG is defined, Lava will not look in the system services 
database for port numbers. Instead, it uses the port numbers defined 
by the parameters LSB_MBD_PORT/LSB_SBD_PORT in lsf.conf. If 
these parameters are not defined, it uses port number 40000 for MBD 
and port number 40001 for SBD.
.PP
You should always specify 1 for this parameter unless you are testing 
Lava Batch.
.PP
Can also be defined from the command line.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSB_DEBUG=1
.RE
.IP
Lava Batch runs in the background with no associated control 
terminal. 

.RE
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSB_DEBUG=2
.RE
.IP
Lava Batch runs in the foreground and prints error messages to 
tty. 

.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_LIM_DEBUG, LSF_RES_DEBUG
.SH LSB_DEBUG_CMD 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_DEBUG_CMD=\fR\fIlog_class
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets the debugging log class for commands and APIs.
.PP
Specifies the log class filtering that will be applied to Batch commands 
or the API. Only messages belonging to the specified log class are 
recorded.
.PP
LSB_DEBUG_CMD (which sets the log class) is used in combination 
with LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK (which sets the log level). For example:

.PP
LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK=LOG_DEBUG 
.br
LSB_DEBUG_CMD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC" 


.PP
Debugging is turned on when you define both parameters.
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSB_CMD_LOGDIR is 
defined.
.PP
To specify multiple log classes, use a space-separated list enclosed by 
quotation marks. For example:

.PP
LSB_DEBUG_CMD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"


.PP
Can also be defined from the command line.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Valid log classes are:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LC_AUTH - Log authentication messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_CHKPNT - Log checkpointing messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_COMM - Log communication messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_ELIM - Log ELIM messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_EXEC - Log significant steps for job execution
.HP 2
\(bu LC_FILE - Log file transfer messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_HANG - Mark where a program might hang
.HP 2
\(bu LC_JARRAY - Log job array messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_JLIMIT - Log job slot limit messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_LOADINDX - Log load index messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_PEND - Log messages related to job pending reasons
.HP 2
\(bu LC_PERFM - Log performance messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_PIM - Log PIM messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_SIGNAL - Log messages pertaining to signals
.HP 2
\(bu LC_SYS - Log system call messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_TRACE - Log significant program walk steps
.HP 2
\(bu LC_XDR - Log everything transferred by XDR
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_CMD_LOG_MASK, LSB_CMD_LOGDIR
.SH LSB_DEBUG_MBD 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_DEBUG_MBD=\fR\fIlog_class
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets the debugging log class for MBD.
.PP
Specifies the log class filtering that will be applied to MBD. Only 
messages belonging to the specified log class are recorded.
.PP
LSB_DEBUG_MBD (which sets the log class) is used in combination 
with LSF_LOG_MASK (which sets the log level). For example:

.PP
LSF_LOG_MASK=LOG_DEBUG 
.br
LSB_DEBUG_MBD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"        


.PP
To specify multiple log classes, use a space-separated list enclosed in 
quotation marks. For example: 

.PP
LSB_DEBUG_MBD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"


.PP
You need to restart the daemons after setting LSB_DEBUG_MBD for 
your changes to take effect. 
.PP
If you use the command badmin mbddebug to temporarily change this 
parameter without changing lsf.conf, you will not need to restart the 
daemons.
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSF_LOGDIR is defined.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Valid log classes are the same as for LSB_DEBUG_CMD except for the 
log classes LC_ELIM and LC_JARRAY which cannot be used with 
LSB_DEBUG_MBD. See LSB_DEBUG_CMD.
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_LOG_MASK, LSF_LOGDIR, \fBbadmin mbddebug
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSF_LOGDIR is defined.
.PP
This parameter can also be defined from the command line.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
For a list of valid log classes, see LSB_DEBUG_CMD.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_DEBUG_CMD, LSF_LOG_MASK, LSF_LOGDIR
.SH LSB_DEBUG_SBD
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_DEBUG_SBD=\fR\fIlog_class
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets the debugging log class for SBD.
.PP
Specifies the log class filtering that will be applied to SBD. Only 
messages belonging to the specified log class are recorded.
.PP
LSB_DEBUG_SBD (which sets the log class) is used in combination 
with LSF_LOG_MASK (which sets the log level). For example:
.PP
LSF_LOG_MASK=LOG_DEBUG
.br
LSB_DEBUG_SBD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC" 
.PP
To specify multiple log classes, use a space-separated list enclosed in 
quotation marks. For example:

.PP
LSB_DEBUG_SBD="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"


.PP
You need to restart the daemons after setting LSB_DEBUG_SBD for 
your changes to take effect. 
.PP
If you use the command badmin sbddebug to temporarily change this 
parameter without changing lsf.conf, you will not need to restart the 
daemons.
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSF_LOGDIR is defined.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Valid log classes are the same as for LSB_DEBUG_CMD except for the 
log classes LC_ELIM and LC_JARRAY which cannot be used with 
LSB_DEBUG_SBD. See LSB_DEBUG_CMD.
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_DEBUG_MBD, LSF_LOG_MASK, LSF_LOGDIR, \fBbadmin
\fR.SH LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD=\fR\fImethod_name
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Name of custom echkpnt and erestart methods.
.PP
Can also be defined as an environment variable, or specified through 
the bsub -k option.
.PP
The name you specify here will be used for both your custom echkpnt 
and erestart programs. You must assign your custom \fIechkpnt\fR and 
\fIerestart\fR programs the name echkpnt.\fImethod_name\fR and 
erestart.\fImethod_name\fR. The programs echkpnt.\fImethod_name\fR and 
erestart.\fImethod_name\fR. must be in LSF_SERVERDIR or in the 
directory specified by LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR.
.PP
Do not define LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD=default as default is a 
reserved keyword to indicate to use Lava's default echkpnt and 
erestart methods. You can however, specify bsub -k "my_dir 
method=default" my_job to indicate that you want to use Lava's 
default checkpoint and restart methods.
.PP
When this parameter is undefined in lsf.conf or as an environment 
variable and no custom method is specified at job submission through 
bsub -k, Lava uses echkpnt.default and erestart.default to 
checkpoint and restart jobs. 
.PP
When this parameter is defined, Lava uses the custom checkpoint and 
restart methods specified.
.SS Limitations
.BR
.PP
.PP
The method name and directory(LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR) 
combination must be unique in the cluster. 
.PP
For example, you may have two echkpnt applications with the same 
name such as echkpnt.mymethod but what differentiates them is the 
different directories defined with LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR. It is 
the cluster administrator's responsibility to ensure that method name 
and method directory combinations are unique in the cluster.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined; Lava uses echkpnt.default and erestart.default to 
checkpoint and restart jobs
.SS Product
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lava Base, Lava Batch
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR, LSB_ECHKPNT_KEEP_OUTPUT
.SH LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR=\fR\fIpath
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Absolute path name of the directory in which custom echkpnt and 
erestart programs are located.
.PP
Can also be defined as an environment variable.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined; Lava searches in LSF_SERVERDIR for custom echkpnt and 
erestart programs
.SS Product
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lava Base, Lava Batch
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD, LSB_ECHKPNT_KEEP_OUTPUT
.SH LSB_ECHKPNT_KEEP_OUTPUT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_ECHKPNT_KEEP_OUTPUT=y\fR|\fBY
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Saves the standard output and standard error of custom echkpnt and 
erestart methods to:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu \fIcheckpoint_dir\fR/$LSB_JOBID/echkpnt.out 
.HP 2
\(bu \fIcheckpoint_dir\fR/$LSB_JOBID/echkpnt.err 
.HP 2
\(bu \fIcheckpoint_dir\fR/$LSB_JOBID/erestart.out
.HP 2
\(bu \fIcheckpoint_dir\fR/$LSB_JOBID/erestart.err
.RE
.PP
Can also be defined as an environment variable.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined; standard error and standard output messages from custom 
echkpnt and erestart programs is directed to /dev/null and 
discarded by Lava.
.SS Product
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lava Base, Lava Batch
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD, LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR
.SH LSB_INTERACT_MSG_ENH
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_INTERACT_MSG_ENH = y\fR | \fBY
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
If set, enables enhanced messaging for interactive batch jobs. To 
disable interactive batch job messages, set LSB_INTERACT_MSG_ENH 
to any value other than y or Y; for example, 
LSB_INTERACT_MSG_ENH=N.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_INTERACT_MSG_INTVAL
.SH LSB_INTERACT_MSG_INTVAL
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_INTERACT_MSG_INTVAL =\fR \fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the update interval in seconds for interactive batch job 
messages. LSB_INTERACT_MSG_INTVAL is ignored if 
LSB_INTERACT_MSG_ENH is not set.
.PP
Because the job information that Lava uses to get the pending or 
suspension reason is updated according to the value of 
MBD_SLEEP_TIME, there is no advantage to setting 
LSB_INTERACT_MSG_INTVAL less than MBD_SLEEP_TIME
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined. If LSB_INTERACT_MSG_INTVAL is set to an incorrect value, 
the default update interval is 60 seconds.
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_INTERACT_MSG_ENH in lsf.conf, MBD_SLEEP_TIME in 
lsb.params
.SH LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_JOB_CPULIMIT = y\fR | \fBn
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Determines whether the CPU limit is a per-process limit enforced by 
the OS or whether it is a per-job limit enforced by Lava:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu The per-process limit is enforced by the OS when the CPU time of 
one process of the job exceeds the CPU limit.
.HP 2
\(bu The per-job limit is enforced by Lava when the total CPU time of all 
processes of the job exceed the CPU limit.
.RE
.PP
This parameter applies to CPU limits set when a job is submitted with 
\fBbsub -c\fR , and to CPU limits set for queues by CPULIMIT in 
lsb.queues. 
.PP
The setting of LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT has the following effect on how the 
limit is enforced:
.PP
When LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT is Y, the Lava-enforced per-job limit is 
enabled, and the OS-enforced per-process limit is disabled.
.PP
When LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT is N, the Lava-enforced per-job limit is 
disabled, and the OS-enforced per-process limit is enabled.
.PP
When LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT is undefined, the Lava-enforced per-job limit 
is enabled, and the OS-enforced per-process limit is enabled.
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Lava-enforced per-job limit--When the sum of the CPU time of all 
processes of a job exceed the CPU limit, Lava sends a SIGXCPU 
signal (where supported by the operating system) from the 
operating system to all processes belonging to the job, then 
SIGINT, SIGTERM and SIGKILL. The interval between signals is 10 
seconds by default.
.RE

.IP
On UNIX, the time interval between SIGXCPU, SIGINT, SIGKILL, 
SIGTERM can be configured with the parameter 
JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL in lsb.params.


.RS
.HP 2
\(bu OS-enforced per process limit--When one process in the job 
exceeds the CPU limit, the limit is enforced by the operating 
system. For more details, refer to your operating system 
documentation for setrlimit().
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS Notes
.BR
.PP
.PP
To make LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT take effect, use the command badmin 
hrestart all to restart all SBDs in the cluster. 
.PP
Changing the default Terminate job control action--You can define a 
different terminate action in lsb.queues with the parameter 
JOB_CONTROLS if you do not want the job to be killed. For more 
details on job controls, see the \fILava Administrator's Guide\fR.
.SS Limitations
.BR
.PP
.PP
If a job is running and the parameter is changed, Lava is not able to reset 
the type of limit enforcement for running jobs. 
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu If the parameter is changed from per-process limit enforced by the 
OS to per-job limit enforced by Lava (LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT=n 
changed to LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT=y), both per-process limit and 
per-job limit will affect the running job. This means that signals may 
be sent to the job either when an individual process exceeds the 
CPU limit or the sum of the CPU time of all processes of the job 
exceed the limit. A job that is running may be killed by the OS or 
by Lava.
.HP 2
\(bu If the parameter is changed from per-job limit enforced by Lava to 
per-process limit enforced by the OS (LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT=y 
changed to LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT=n), the job will be allowed to run 
without limits because the per-process limit was previously 
disabled.
.RE
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
lsb.queues, bsub, JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL, LSB_MOD_ALL_JOBS
.SH LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=y\fR | \fBn
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Determines whether the memory limit is a per-process limit enforced 
by the OS or whether it is a per-job limit enforced by Lava. 
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu The per-process limit is enforced by the OS when the memory 
allocated to one process of the job exceeds the memory limit.
.HP 2
\(bu The per-job limit is enforced by Lava when the sum of the memory 
allocated to all processes of the job exceeds the memory limit.
.RE
.PP
This parameter applies to memory limits set when a job is submitted 
with \fBbsub -M \fR\fImem_limit\fR, and to memory limits set for queues with 
MEMLIMIT in lsb.queues. 
.PP
The setting of LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT has the following effect on how the 
limit is enforced:
.PP
When LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT is Y, the Lava-enforced per-job limit is 
enabled, and the OS-enforced per-process limit is disabled.
.PP
When LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT is N or undefined, the Lava-enforced per-
job limit is disabled, and the OS-enforced per-process limit is enabled.
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Lava-enforced per-job limit--When the total memory allocated to all 
processes in the job exceeds the memory limit, Lava sends the 
following signals to kill the job: SIGINT, SIGTERM, then SIGKILL. 
The interval between signals is 10 seconds by default.
.RE

.IP
On UNIX, the time interval between SIGINT, SIGKILL, SIGTERM 
can be configured with the parameter JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL 
in lsb.params.


.RS
.HP 2
\(bu OS-enforced per process limit--When the memory allocated to one 
process of the job exceeds the memory limit, the operating system 
enforces the limit. Lava passes the memory limit to the operating 
system. Some operating systems apply the memory limit to each 
process, and some do not enforce the memory limit at all.
.RE

.IP
OS memory limit enforcement is only available on systems that 
support RUSAGE_RSS for setrlimit().

.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined; per-process memory limit enforced by the OS; per-job 
memory limit enforced by Lava disabled
.SS Notes
.BR
.PP
.PP
To make LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT take effect, use the command badmin 
hrestart all to restart all SBDs in the cluster. 
.PP
If LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT is set, it overrides the setting of the parameter 
LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE. The parameter LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE 
is ignored. 
.PP
The difference between LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT set to y and 
LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE set to y is that with LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT, 
only the per-job memory limit enforced by Lava is enabled. The per-
process memory limit enforced by the OS is disabled. With 
LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE set to y, both the per-job memory limit 
enforced by Lava and the per-process memory limit enforced by the OS 
are enabled.
.PP
Changing the default Terminate job control action--You can define a 
different Terminate action in lsb.queues with the parameter 
JOB_CONTROLS if you do not want the job to be killed. For more 
details on job controls, see the \fILava Administrator's Guide\fR.
.SS Limitations
.BR
.PP
.PP
If a job is running and the parameter is changed, Lava is not able to reset 
the type of limit enforcement for running jobs. 
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu If the parameter is changed from per-process limit enforced by the 
OS to per-job limit enforced by Lava (LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=n or 
undefined changed to LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=y), both per-process 
limit and per-job limit will affect the running job. This means that 
signals may be sent to the job either when the memory allocated to 
an individual process exceeds the memory limit or the sum of 
memory allocated to all processes of the job exceed the limit. A job 
that is running may be killed by Lava.
.HP 2
\(bu If the parameter is changed from per-job limit enforced by Lava to 
per-process limit enforced by the OS (LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=y 
changed to LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=n or undefined), the job will be 
allowed to run without limits because the per-process limit was 
previously disabled.
.RE
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE, lsb.queues, bsub, 
JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL, LSB_MOD_ALL_JOBS
.SH LSB_MAILPROG
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MAILPROG=\fR\fIfile_name
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Path and file name of the mail program used by the Batch system to 
send email.
.PP
This is the electronic mail program that Lava will use to send system 
messages to the user. 
.PP
When Lava needs to send email to users it invokes the program defined 
by LSB_MAILPROG in lsf.conf. You can write your own custom mail 
program and set LSB_MAILPROG to the path where this program is 
stored.
.PP
The Lava administrator can set the parameter as part of cluster reconfiguration.
.PP
Provide the name of any mail program. For your convenience, Lava 
provides the following mail programs:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu sendmail: Supports the sendmail protocol on UNIX
.HP 2

.IP
If lsmail is specified, the parameter LSB_MAILSERVER must also 
be specified.


.PP
If this parameter is modified, the Lava administrator must restart SBD on 
all hosts to retrieve the new value.
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu On UNIX:
.RE

.IP
Lava Batch normally uses /usr/lib/sendmail as the mail transport 
agent to send mail to users. Lava Batch calls LSB_MAILPROG with 
two arguments; one argument gives the full name of the sender, 
and the other argument gives the return address for Batch mail. 

.IP
LSB_MAILPROG must read the body of the mail message from the 
standard input. The end of the message is marked by end-of-file. 
Any program or shell script that accepts the arguments and input, 
and delivers the mail correctly, can be used.

.IP
LSB_MAILPROG must be executable by any user. 

.SS Examples
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_MAILPROG=/serverA/tools/lsf/bin/unixhost.exe 


.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
/usr/lib/sendmail (UNIX) 
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_MAILSERVER, LSB_MAILTO
.SH LSB_MAILSERVER
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MAILSERVER=\fR\fImail_protocol:mail_server
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
If this parameter is modified, the Lava administrator must restart SBD on 
all hosts to retrieve the new value.
.SS Examples 
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSB_MAILSERVER = EXCHANGE:Host2@company.com

.PP
LSB_MAILSERVER = SMTP:MailHost


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_MAILPROG
.SH LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax	 
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT=\fR\fIemail_size_in_KB
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Limits the size of the email containing Lava batch job output 
information.
.PP
The Lava Batch system sends job information such as CPU, process and 
memory usage, job output, and errors in email to the submitting user 
account. Some batch jobs can create large amounts of output. To 
prevent large job output files from interfering with your mail system, 
use LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT to set the maximum size in KB of the email 
containing the job information. Specify a positive integer.
.PP
If the size of the job output email exceeds LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT, the 
output is saved to a file under JOB_SPOOL_DIR or to the default job 
output directory if JOB_SPOOL_DIR is undefined. The email informs 
users of where the job output is located.
.PP
If the \fB-o\fR option of \fBbsub\fR is used, the size of the job output is not 
checked against LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT.
.PP
If you use a custom mail program specified by the LSB_MAILPROG 
parameter that can use the LSB_MAILSIZE environment variable, it is 
not necessary to configure LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
By default, LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT is not enabled. No limit is set on size 
of batch job output email.
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_MAILPROG, LSB_MAILTO
.SH LSB_MAILTO
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MAILTO=\fR\fImail_account
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lava Batch sends electronic mail to users when their jobs complete or 
have errors, and to the Lava administrator in the case of critical errors in 
the Lava Batch system. The default is to send mail to the user who 
submitted the job, on the host on which the daemon is running; this 
assumes that your electronic mail system forwards messages to a 
central mailbox.
.PP
The LSB_MAILTO parameter changes the mailing address used by Lava 
Batch. LSB_MAILTO is a format string that is used to build the mailing 
address.
.PP
Common formats are:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu !U--Mail is sent to the submitting user's account name on the local 
host. The substring !U, if found, is replaced with the user's account 
name.
.HP 2
\(bu !U@company_name.com--Mail is sent to 
\fIuser\fR@\fIcompany_name\fR.com on the mail server specified by 
LSB_MAILSERVER.
.HP 2
\(bu !U@!H--Mail is sent to \fIuser\fR@\fIsubmission_hostname\fR. The 
substring !H is replaced with the name of the submission host.
.RE

.PP
All other characters (including any other `!') are copied exactly.
.PP
If this parameter is modified, the Lava administrator must restart the SBD 
daemons on all hosts to retrieve the new value.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
!U


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_MAILPROG, LSB_MAILSIZE_LIMIT
.SH LSB_MIG2PEND
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MIG2PEND=0 \fR| \fB1
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Applies only to migrating jobs.
.PP
If 1, requeues migrating jobs intead of restarting or rerunning them on 
the next available host. Requeues the jobs in the PEND state, in order 
of the original submission time and job priority, unless 
LSB_REQUEUE_TO_BOTTOM is also defined.
.PP
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also 
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_REQUEUE_TO_BOTTOM
.SH LSB_MBD_PORT  
.BR
.PP
.PP
See LSF_LIM_PORT, LSF_RES_PORT, LSB_MBD_PORT, 
LSB_SBD_PORT.
.SH LSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MEMLIMIT_ENFORCE=y\fR | \fBn
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specify y to enable Lava memory limit enforcement.
.PP
If enabled, Lava sends a signal to kill all processes that exceed queue-
level memory limits set by MEMLIMIT in lsb.queues or job-level 
memory limits specified by \fBbsub -M \fR\fImem_limit\fR.
.PP
Otherwise, Lava passes memory limit enforcement to the OS. UNIX 
operating systems that support RUSAGE_RSS for setrlimit() can 
apply the memory limit to each process. 
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Not defined. Lava passes memory limit enforcement to the OS.
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
lsb.queues
.SH LSB_MOD_ALL_JOBS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_MOD_ALL_JOBS=y\fR | \fBY
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
If set, enables \fBbmod\fR to modify resource limits and location of job output 
files for running jobs.
.PP
After a job has been dispatched, the following modifications can be 
made:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu CPU limit (\fB-c \fR[\fIhour\fR\fB:\fR]\fIminute\fR[\fB/\fR\fIhost_name\fR | \fB/\fR\fIhost_model\fR] | \fB-cn\fR)
.HP 2
\(bu Memory limit (\fB-M\fR \fImem_limit\fR | \fB-Mn\fR)
.HP 2
\(bu Run limit (\fB-W\fR \fIrun_limit\fR[\fB/\fR\fIhost_name\fR | \fB/\fR\fIhost_model\fR] | \fB-Wn\fR)
.HP 2
\(bu Standard output file name (\fB-o\fR \fIoutput_file\fR | \fB-on\fR)
.HP 2
\(bu Standard error file name (\fB-e\fR \fIerror_file\fR | \fB-en\fR)
.HP 2
\(bu Rerunnable jobs (\fB-r\fR | \fB-rn\fR)
.RE
.PP
To modify the CPU limit or the memory limit of running jobs, the 
parameters LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT=Y and LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT=Y must 
be defined in lsf.conf.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_JOB_CPULIMIT, LSB_JOB_MEMLIMIT
.PP
.SH LSB_REQUEUE_TO_BOTTOM
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_REQUEUE_TO_BOTTOM=0\fR | \fB1
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Optional. If 1, requeues automatically requeued jobs to the bottom of 
the queue instead of to the top. Also requeues migrating jobs to the 
bottom of the queue if LSB_MIG2PEND is defined.
.PP
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
REQUEUE_EXIT_VALUES, LSB_MIG2PEND
.SH LSB_SBD_PORT
.BR
.PP
.PP
See LSF_LIM_PORT, LSF_RES_PORT, LSB_MBD_PORT, 
LSB_SBD_PORT.
.SH LSB_SET_TMPDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax 
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_SET_TMPDIR=\fR[\fBy\fR|\fBn\fR]
.PP
If y, Lava sets the TMPDIR environment variable, overwriting the current 
value with /\fItmp\fR/\fIjob_ID\fR.
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
n
.SH LSB_SHAREDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_SHAREDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory in which Lava Batch maintains job history 
and accounting logs for each cluster. These files are necessary for 
correct operation of the system. Like the organization under 
LSB_CONFDIR, there is one subdirectory for each cluster.
.PP
The LSB_SHAREDIR directory must be owned by the Lava administrator. 
It must be accessible from all hosts that can potentially become the 
master host, and must allow read and write access from the Lava master 
host. 
.PP
The LSB_SHAREDIR directory typically resides on a reliable file server.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_INDEP/work


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_LOCALDIR
.SH LSB_SIGSTOP
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_SIGSTOP=\fR\fIsignal_name\fR | \fIsignal_value
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the signal sent by the SUSPEND action in Lava. You can specify 
a signal name or a number.
.PP
If LSB_SIGSTOP is set to anything other than SIGSTOP, the SIGTSTP 
signal that is normally sent by the SUSPEND action is not sent.
.PP
If this parameter is undefined, by default the SUSPEND action in Lava 
sends the following signals to a job:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Parallel or interactive jobs--1. SIGTSTP is sent first to allow user 
programs to catch the signal and clean up. 2. SIGSTOP is sent 10 
seconds after SIGTSTP. SIGSTOP cannot be caught by user 
programs.
.HP 2
\(bu Other jobs--SIGSTOP is sent. SIGSTOP cannot be caught by user 
programs.  
.RE
.PP
The same set of signals is not supported on all UNIX systems. To 
display a list of the symbolic names of the signals (without the SIG 
prefix) supported on your system, use the \fBkill -l\fR command.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSB_SIGSTOP=SIGKILL


.PP
In this example, the SUSPEND action sends the three default signals 
sent by the TERMINATE action (SIGINT, SIGTERM, and SIGKILL) 10 
seconds apart.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined. Default SUSPEND action in Lava is sent.
.SH LSB_SHORT_HOSTLIST
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_SHORT_HOSTLIST=1
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Displays an abbreviated list of hosts in \fBbjobs\fR and \fBbhist\fR for a parallel 
job where multiple processes of a job are running on a host. Multiple 
processes are displayed in the following format:

.PP
\fIprocesses\fR*hostA


.PP
For example, if a parallel job is running 5 processes on hostA, the 
information is displayed in the following manner:

.PP
5*hostA


.PP
Setting this parameter may improve MBD restart performance and 
accelerate event replay.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH LSB_TIME_CMD 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_TIME_CMD=\fR\fItimimg_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timing level for checking how long batch commands run. 
.PP
Time usage is logged in milliseconds; specify a positive integer.
.PP
Example: LSB_TIME_CMD=1
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_TIME_MBD, LSB_TIME_SBD, LSF_TIME_LIM, LSF_TIME_RES
.SH LSB_TIME_MBD
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_TIME_MBD=\fR\fItiming_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timing level for checking how long MBD routines run.
.PP
Time usage is logged in milliseconds; specify a positive integer.
.PP
Example: LSB_TIME_MBD=1
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_TIME_CMD, LSB_TIME_SBD, LSF_TIME_LIM, LSF_TIME_RES
.SH LSB_TIME_SBD
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_TIME_SBD=\fR\fItiming_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timing level for checking how long SBD routines run.
.PP
Time usage is logged in milliseconds; specify a positive integer.
.PP
Example: LSB_TIME_SBD=1
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_TIME_CMD, LSB_TIME_MBD, LSF_TIME_LIM, LSF_TIME_RES
.SH LSB_UTMP
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSB_UTMP=y\fR | \fBY
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
If set, enables registration of user and account information for 
interactive batch jobs submitted with \fBbsub -Ip\fR or \fBbsub -Is\fR. To 
disable utmp file registration, set LSB_UTMP to any value other than y 
or Y; for example, LSB_UTMP=N.
.PP
Lava registers interactive batch jobs the job by adding a entries to the 
utmp file on the execution host when the job starts. After the job 
finishes, Lava removes the entries for the job from the utmp file.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.PP
LSF_SERVERDIR, where the default for LSF_SERVERDIR is 
/usr/share/lsf/etc.
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_SERVERDIR
.SH LSF_AM_OPTIONS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_AM_OPTIONS=AMFIRST\fR | \fBAMNEVER
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Determines the order of file path resolution when setting the user's 
home directory.
.PP
This variable is rarely used but sometimes Lava does not properly 
change the directory to the user's home directory when the user's home 
directory is automounted. Setting LSF_AM_OPTIONS forces the Batch 
system to change directory to $HOME before attempting to automount 
the user's home.
.PP
When this parameter is undefined or set to AMFIRST, Lava:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Sets the user's $HOME directory from the automount path. If it 
cannot do so, Lava sets the user's $HOME directory from the passwd 
file. 
.RE
.PP
When this parameter is set to AMNEVER, Lava:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Never uses automount to set the path to the user's home. Lava sets 
the user's $HOME directory directly from the passwd file.
.RE
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
The two values are AMFIRST and AMNEVER
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined; same as AMFIRST
.SH LSF_API_CONNTIMEOUT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_API_CONNTIMEOUT=\fR\fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Timeout when connecting to LIM. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
5 
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_API_RECVTIMEOUT
.SH LSF_API_RECVTIMEOUT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_API_RECVTIMEOUT=\fR\fIseconds\fR 
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Timeout when receiving a reply from LIM.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
20
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_API_CONNTIMEOUT
.SH LSF_AUTH
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_AUTH=eauth\fR | \fBsetuid\fR 
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Optional. Determines the type of authentication used by Lava.
.PP
By default, external user authentication is used, and LSF_AUTH is 
defined to be eauth.
.PP
If this parameter is changed, all Lava daemons must be shut down and 
restarted by running \fBlsf_daemons start\fR on each of the Lava server 
hosts so that the daemons will use the new authentication method.
.PP
If LSF_AUTH is not defined, RES will only accept requests from 
privileged ports. When Lava uses privileged ports for user 
authentication, Lava commands must be installed setuid to root to 
operate correctly. If the Lava commands are installed in an NFS mounted 
shared file system, the file system must be mounted with setuid 
execution allowed (that is, without the nosuid option). See the man 
page for \fBmount\fR for more details. 
.PP
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu eauth
.RE

.IP
For site-specific external authentication.


.RS
.HP 2
\(bu setuid
.RE

.IP
For privileged ports (\fBsetuid\fR) authentication. This is the 
mechanism most UNIX remote utilities use. The Lava commands 
must be installed as \fBsetuid\fR programs and owned by root.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
eauth
.SH LSF_AUTH_DAEMONS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_AUTH_DAEMONS=\fR\fIany_value
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Enables daemon authentication, as long as LSF_AUTH in lsf.conf is 
set to \fBeauth\fR. Daemons will call \fBeauth\fR to authenticate each other.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH LSF_BINDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_BINDIR=\fR\fIdir\fR 
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory in which all Lava user commands are installed.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_MACHDEP/bin


.SH LSF_CMD_LOGDIR 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_CMD_LOGDIR=\fR\fIpath
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The path to the log files used for debugging Lava commands.
.PP
This parameter can also be set from the command line.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
/tmp


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_DEBUG_CMD, LSB_CMD_LOGDIR
.SH LSF_CONF_RETRY_INT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_CONF_RETRY_INT=\fR\fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The number of seconds to wait between unsuccessful attempts at 
opening a configuration file (only valid for LIM). This allows LIM to 
tolerate temporary access failures.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
30
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_CONF_RETRY_MAX
.SH LSF_CONF_RETRY_MAX
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_CONF_RETRY_MAX=\fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The maximum number of unsuccessful attempts at opening a 
configuration file (only valid for LIM). This allows LIM to tolerate 
temporary access failures.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
0
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_CONF_RETRY_INT
.SH LSF_CONFDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_CONFDIR=\fR\fIdir\fR 
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory in which all Lava configuration files are installed. These files 
are shared throughout the system and should be readable from any 
host. This directory can contain configuration files for more than one 
cluster.
.PP
The files in the LSF_CONFDIR directory must be owned by the primary 
Lava administrator, and readable by all Lava server hosts. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_INDEP/conf


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_CONFDIR
.SH LSF_DEBUG_LIM
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_DEBUG_LIM=\fR\fIlog_class
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets the log class for debugging LIM.
.PP
Specifies the log class filtering that will be applied to LIM. Only 
messages belonging to the specified log class are recorded.
.PP
The LSF_DEBUG_LIM (which sets the log class) is used in combination 
with LSF_LOG_MASK (which sets the log level). For example:

.PP
LSF_LOG_MASK=LOG_DEBUG
.br
LSF_DEBUG_LIM=LC_TRACE 


.PP
You need to restart the daemons after setting LSF_DEBUG_LIM for your 
changes to take effect. 
.PP
If you use the command lsadmin limdebug to temporarily change 
this parameter without changing lsf.conf, you will not need to restart 
the daemons.
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSF_LOGDIR is defined.
.PP
To specify multiple log classes, use a space-separated list enclosed in 
quotation marks. For example: 

.PP
LSF_DEBUG_LIM="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"


.PP
This parameter can also be defined from the command line.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Valid log classes are:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LC_AUTH - Log authentication messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_CHKPNT - log checkpointing messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_COMM - Log communication messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_EXEC - Log significant steps for job execution
.HP 2
\(bu LC_FILE - Log file transfer messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_HANG - Mark where a program might hang
.HP 2
\(bu LC_PIM - Log PIM messages
.HP 2
\(bu LC_SIGNAL - Log messages pertaining to signals
.HP 2
\(bu LC_TRACE - Log significant program walk steps
.HP 2
\(bu LC_XDR - Log everything transferred by XDR
.RE
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_DEBUG_RES, LSF_LOG_MASK, LSF_LOGDIR
.SH LSF_DEBUG_RES
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_DEBUG_RES=\fR\fIlog_class
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets the log class for debugging RES.
.PP
Specifies the log class filtering that will be applied to RES. Only 
messages belonging to the specified log class are recorded.
.PP
LSF_DEBUG_RES (which sets the log class) is used in combination with 
LSF_LOG_MASK (which sets the log level). For example:

.PP
LSF_LOG_MASK=LOG_DEBUG 
.br
LSF_DEBUG_RES=LC_TRACE 


.PP
To specify multiple log classes, use a space-separated list enclosed in 
quotation marks. For example:

.PP
LSF_DEBUG_RES="LC_TRACE LC_EXEC"


.PP
You need to restart the daemons after setting LSF_DEBUG_RES for your 
changes to take effect. 
.PP
If you use the command lsadmin resdebug to temporarily change 
this parameter without changing lsf.conf, you will not need to restart 
the daemons.
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSF_LOGDIR is defined.
.PP
This parameter can also be defined from the command line.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
For a list of valid log classes see LSF_DEBUG_LIM
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_DEBUG_LIM, LSF_LOG_MASK, LSF_LOGDIR
.SH LSF_DEFAULT_INSTALL 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_DEFAULT_INSTALL=y\fR|\fBn
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
This parameter is set to y if the default installation is used; set to n 
otherwise.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP

.PP
y | n


.SH LSF_ENVDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_ENVDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory containing the lsf.conf file.
.PP
By default, lsf.conf is installed by creating a shared copy in 
LSF_CONFDIR and adding a symbolic link from /etc/lsf.conf to the 
shared copy. If LSF_ENVDIR is set, the symbolic link is installed in 
LSF_ENVDIR/lsf.conf.
.PP
The lsf.conf file is a global environment configuration file for all Lava 
services and applications. The Lava default installation places the file in 
LSF_CONFDIR.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
/etc

.SH LSF_INCLUDEDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_INCLUDEDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory under which the Lava API header files lsf.h and lsbatch.h 
are installed.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_INDEP/include


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_INDEP
.SH LSF_INDEP
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_INDEP=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the default top-level directory for all machine-independent 
Lava files.
.PP
This includes man pages, configuration files, working directories, and 
examples. For example, defining LSF_INDEP as /usr/share/lsf/mnt 
places man pages in /usr/share/lsf/mnt/man, configuration files in 
/usr/share/lsf/mnt/conf, and so on.
.PP
The files in LSF_INDEP can be shared by all machines in the cluster. 
.PP
As shown in the following list, LSF_INDEP is incorporated into other 
Lava environment variables. 
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSB_SHAREDIR=$LSF_INDEP/work
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_CONFDIR=$LSF_INDEP/conf
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_INCLUDEDIR=$LSF_INDEP/include
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_MANDIR=$LSF_INDEP/man
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
/usr/share/lsf/mnt


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_MACHDEP, LSB_SHAREDIR, LSF_CONFDIR, LSF_INCLUDEDIR, 
LSF_MANDIR 
.SH LSF_INTERACTIVE_STDERR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_INTERACTIVE_STDERR=y\fR | \fBn
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Separates stderr from stdout for interactive tasks and interactive 
batch jobs. 
.PP
This parameter can also be enabled or disabled as an environment 
variable.
.SS Warning
.BR
.PP
.SS If you enable this parameter globally in lsf.conf, check any custom scripts that manipulate stderr and stdout.
.BR
.PP
.PP
When this parameter is undefined or set to n, the following are written 
to stdout on the submission host for interactive tasks and interactive 
batch jobs:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Job standard output messages
.HP 2
\(bu Job standard error messages
.RE
.PP
The following are written to stderr on the submission host for 
interactive tasks and interactive batch jobs:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Lava messages
.HP 2
\(bu NIOS standard messages
.HP 2
\(bu NIOS debug messages (if LSF_NIOS_DEBUG=1 in lsf.conf) 
.RE
.PP
When this parameter is set to y, the following are written to stdout on 
the submission host for interactive tasks and interactive batch jobs:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Job standard output messages
.RE
.PP
The following are written to stderr on the submission host:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Job standard error messages
.HP 2
\(bu Lava messages
.HP 2
\(bu NIOS standard messages
.HP 2
\(bu NIOS debug messages (if LSF_NIOS_DEBUG=1 in lsf.conf) 
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS Notes
.BR
.PP
.PP
When this parameter is set, the change affects interactive tasks and 
interactive batch jobs run with the following commands:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu \fBbsub -I
\fR.HP 2
\(bu \fBbsub -Ip
\fR.HP 2
\(bu \fBbsub -Is
\fR.HP 2
.HP 2
.RE
.SS Limitations
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Pseudo-terminal--Do not use this parameter if your application 
depends on stderr as a terminal. This is because Lava must use a 
non-pseudo-terminal connection to separate stderr from stdout.
.HP 2
\(bu Synchronization--Do not use this parameter if you depend on 
messages in stderr and stdout to be synchronized and jobs in 
your environment are continuously submitted. A continuous stream 
of messages causes stderr and stdout to not be synchronized. 
This can be emphasized with parallel jobs. This situation is similar 
to that of rsh.
.HP 2
\(bu NIOS standard and debug messages--NIOS standard messages, 
and debug messages (when LSF_NIOS_DEBUG=1 in lsf.conf or 
as an environment variable) are written to stderr. NIOS standard 
messages are in the format <<\fImessage\fR>>, which makes it easier to 
remove them if you wish. To redirect NIOS debug messages to a 
file, define LSF_CMD_LOGDIR in lsf.conf or as an environment 
variable.
.RE
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_NIOS_DEBUG, LSF_CMD_LOGDIR
.SH LSF_LIBDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_LIBDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the directory in which the Lava libraries are installed. Library 
files are shared by all hosts of the same type. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_MACHDEP/lib


.SH LSF_LIM_DEBUG
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_LIM_DEBUG=1\fR | \fB2
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets Lava to debug mode.
.PP
If LSF_LIM_DEBUG is defined, LIM operates in single user mode. No 
security checking is performed, so LIM should not run as root. 
.PP
LIM will not look in the services database for the LIM service port 
number. Instead, it uses port number 36000 unless LSF_LIM_PORT has 
been defined.
.PP
Specify 1 for this parameter unless you are testing Lava.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_LIM_DEBUG=1
.RE
.IP
LIM runs in the background with no associated control 
terminal. 

.RE
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_LIM_DEBUG=2
.RE
.IP
LIM runs in the foreground and prints error messages to tty. 

.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_RES_DEBUG
.SH LSF_LIM_PORT, LSF_RES_PORT, LSB_MBD_PORT, LSB_SBD_PORT 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
Example: \fBLSF_LIM_PORT=\fR\fIport_number
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
TCP service ports to use for communication with the Lava daemons.
.PP
If port parameters are undefined, Lava obtains the port numbers by 
looking up the Lava service names in the /etc/services file or the NIS 
(UNIX). If it is not possible to modify the services database, you can 
define these port parameters to set the port numbers. 
.PP
With careful use of these settings along with the LSF_ENVDIR and 
PATH environment variables, it is possible to run two versions of the 
Lava software on a host, selecting between the versions by setting the 
PATH environment variable to include the correct version of the 
commands and the LSF_ENVDIR environment variable to point to the 
directory containing the appropriate lsf.conf file.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Default port number values for Linux are:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_LIM_PORT=6879
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_RES_PORT=6878
.HP 2
\(bu LSB_MBD_PORT=6881
.HP 2
\(bu LSB_SBD_PORT=6882
.RE
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
\fBLSF_LOG_MASK=\fR\fImessage_log_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Logging level of messages for Lava daemons.
.PP
This is similar to syslog. All messages logged at the specified 
level or higher are recorded; lower level messages are discarded. The 
LSF_LOG_MASK value can be any log priority symbol that is defined in 
syslog.h (see syslog(8)).
.PP
The log levels in order from highest to lowest are:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_EMERG
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_ALERT
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_CRIT
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_ERR
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_WARNING
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_NOTICE
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_INFO
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG1
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG2
.HP 2
\(bu LOG_DEBUG3
.RE
.PP
The most important Lava log messages are at the LOG_ERR or 
LOG_WARNING level. Messages at the LOG_INFO and LOG_DEBUG 
level are only useful for debugging. 
.PP
Although message log level implements similar functionalities to Linux 
syslog, there is no dependency on syslog. It works even if 
messages are being logged to files instead of syslog.
.PP
Lava logs error messages in different levels so that you can choose to 
log all messages, or only log messages that are deemed critical. The 
level specified by LSF_LOG_MASK determines which messages are 
recorded and which are discarded. All messages logged at the specified 
level or higher are recorded, while lower level messages are discarded. 
.PP
For debugging purposes, the level LOG_DEBUG contains the fewest 
number of debugging messages and is used only for very basic 
debugging. The level LOG_DEBUG3 records all debugging messages, 
and is not often used. Most debugging is done at the level 
LOG_DEBUG2.
.PP
The daemons log to the syslog facility unless LSF_LOGDIR is defined. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
LOG_WARNING
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_DEBUG_LIM, LSF_DEBUG_RES, LSB_DEBUG_MBD, 
LSB_DEBUG_SBD, LSB_DEBUG_CMD, 
LSB_DEBUG_CMD, LSF_CMD_LOGDIR
.SH LSF_LOGDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_LOGDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
This is an optional directory parameter  
.PP
Error messages from all servers are logged into files in this directory. If 
a server is unable to write in this directory, the error logs are created 
in /tmp on UNIX.
.PP
If LSF_LOGDIR is not defined, then syslog is used to log 
everything to the system log using the LOG_DAEMON facility. The 
syslog facility is available by default on most UNIX systems. The 
/etc/syslog.conf file controls the way messages are logged and the 
files they are logged to. See the man pages for the syslogd daemon 
and the syslog function for more information.
.PP
To effectively use debugging, set LSF_LOGDIR to a directory such as 
/tmp. This can be done in your own environment from the shell or in 
lsf.conf. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
On UNIX, if undefined, log messages go to syslog.
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_LOG_MASK
.SS Files
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu lim.log.\fIhost_name
\fR.HP 2
\(bu res.log.\fIhost_name
\fR.HP 2
\(bu sbatchd.log.\fIhost_name
\fR.HP 2
.HP 2
\(bu mbatchd.log.\fIhost_name
\fR.HP 2
\(bu pim.log.\fIhost_name
\fR.RE
.SH LSF_MACHDEP
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_MACHDEP=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the directory in which machine-dependent files are installed. 
These files cannot be shared across different types of machines. 
.PP
In clusters with a single host type, LSF_MACHDEP is usually the same 
as LSF_INDEP. The machine dependent files are the user commands, 
daemons, and libraries. You should not need to modify this parameter.
.PP
As shown in the following list, LSF_MACHDEP is incorporated into 
other Lava variables. 
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_BINDIR=$LSF_MACHDEP/bin 
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_LIBDIR=$LSF_MACHDEP/lib
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_SERVERDIR=$LSF_MACHDEP/etc 
.HP 2
\(bu XLSF_UIDDIR=$LSF_MACHDEP/lib/uid
.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
/usr/share/lsf


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_INDEP
.SH LSF_MANDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_MANDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory under which all man pages are installed.
.PP
The man pages are placed in the man1, man3, man5, and man8 
subdirectories of the LSF_MANDIR directory. This is created by the Lava 
installation process, and you should not need to modify this parameter.
.PP
Man pages are installed in a format suitable for BSD-style \fBman\fR 
commands.
.PP
For most versions of UNIX, you should add the directory LSF_MANDIR 
to your MANPATH environment variable. If your system has a man 
command that does not understand MANPATH, you should either 
install the man pages in the /usr/man directory or get one of the freely 
available man programs.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_INDEP/man


.SH LSF_MASTER_LIST
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_MASTER_LIST="\fR\fIhost_name ...\fR\fB"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Optional. Defines a list of hosts that are candidates to become the 
master host for the cluster.
.PP
Listed hosts must be defined in lsf.cluster.\fIcluster_name\fR.
.PP
Host names are separated by spaces.
.PP
Whenever you reconfigure, only master LIM candidates read 
lsf.shared and lsf.cluster.\fIcluster_name\fR to get updated 
information. The elected master LIM sends configuration information to 
slave LIMs.
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH LSF_MISC
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_MISC=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory in which miscellaneous machine independent files, such as 
Lava example source programs and scripts, are installed.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_CONFDIR/misc


.SH LSF_NIOS_DEBUG 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_NIOS_DEBUG=1
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Turns on NIOS debugging for interactive jobs. 
.PP
If LSF_NIOS_DEBUG=1, NIOS debug messages are written to standard 
error. 
.PP
This parameter can also be defined as an environment variable.
.PP
When LSF_NIOS_DEBUG and LSF_CMD_LOGDIR are defined, NIOS 
debug messages are logged in nios.log.\fIhost_name\fR. in the location 
specified by LSF_CMD_LOGDIR.
.PP
If LSF_NIOS_DEBUG is defined, and the directory defined by 
LSF_CMD_LOGDIR is inaccessible, NIOS debug messages are logged 
to /tmp/nios.log.\fIhost_name\fR instead of stderr.  
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_CMD_LOGDIR
.SH LSF_NIOS_JOBSTATUS_INTERVAL
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_NIOS_JOBSTATUS_INTERVAL=\fR\fIminutes
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Applies only to interactive batch jobs.
.PP
Time interval at which NIOS polls MBD to check if a job is still running. 
Used to retrieve a job's exit status in the case of an abnormal exit of 
NIOS, due to a network failure for example.
.PP
Use this parameter if you run interactive jobs and you have scripts that 
depend on an exit code being returned. 
.PP
When this parameter is undefined and a network connection is lost, 
MBD cannot communicate with NIOS and the return code of a job is 
not retrieved. 
.PP
When this parameter is defined, before exiting, NIOS polls MBD on the 
interval defined by LSF_NIOS_JOBSTATUS_INTERVAL to check if a job 
is still running. NIOS continues to poll MBD until it receives an exit 
code or MBD responds that the job does not exist (if the job has already 
been cleaned from memory for example). 
.PP
If an exit code cannot be retrieved, NIOS generates an error message 
and the code -11.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any integer greater than zero
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS Notes
.BR
.PP
.PP
Set this parameter to large intervals such as 15 minutes or more so that 
performance is not negatively affected if interactive jobs are pending 
for too long. NIOS always calls MBD on the defined interval to confirm 
that a job is still pending and this may add load to MBD.
.SS Product
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lava Batch
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
Environment variable LSF_NIOS_PEND_TIMEOUT
.SH LSF_NIOS_RES_HEARTBEAT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_NIOS_RES_HEARTBEAT=\fR\fIminutes
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Applies only to interactive non-parallel batch jobs.
.PP
Defines how long NIOS waits before sending a message to RES to 
determine if the connection is still open.
.PP
Use this parameter to ensure NIOS exits when a network failure occurs 
instead of waiting indefinitely for notification that a job has been 
completed. When a network connection is lost, RES cannot 
communicate with NIOS and as a result, NIOS does not exit. 
.PP
When this parameter is defined, if there has been no communication 
between RES and NIOS for the defined period of time, NIOS sends a 
message to RES to see if the connection is still open. If the connection 
is no longer available, NIOS exits.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Any integer greater than zero
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS Notes
.BR
.PP
.PP
The time you set this parameter to depends how long you want to 
allow NIOS to wait before exiting. Typically, it can be a number of 
hours or days. Too low a number may add load to the system.
.SS Product
.BR
.PP
.PP
Lava Base, Lava Batch
.SH  
.BR
.PP
.PP
.SH LSF_PIM_INFODIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_PIM_INFODIR=\fR\fIpath
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The path to where PIM writes the pim.info.\fIhost_name\fR file.
.PP
Specifies the path to where the process information is stored. The 
process information resides in the file pim.info.\fIhost_name\fR. The PIM 
also reads this file when it starts up so that it can accumulate the 
resource usage of dead processes for existing process groups.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined. If undefined, the system uses /tmp.
.PP

.SH LSF_PIM_SLEEPTIME
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_PIM_SLEEPTIME=\fR\fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The reporting period for PIM.
.PP
PIM updates the process information every 15 minutes unless an 
application queries this information. If an application requests the 
information, PIM will update the process information every 
LSF_PIM_SLEEPTIME seconds. If the information is not queried by any 
application for more than 5 minutes, the PIM will revert back to the 15 
minute update period.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
15
.SH LSF_RES_ACCT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_RES_ACCT=\fR\fImilliseconds \fR| \fB0
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
If this parameter is defined, RES will log information for completed and 
failed tasks by default (see \fBlsf.acct\fR(5)).  
.PP
The value for LSF_RES_ACCT is specified in terms of consumed CPU 
time (milliseconds). Only tasks that have consumed more than the 
specified CPU time will be logged. 
.PP
If this parameter is defined as LSF_RES_ACCT=0, then all tasks will be 
logged. 
.PP
For those tasks that consume the specified amount of CPU time, RES 
generates a record and appends the record to the task log file 
lsf.acct.\fIhost_name\fR. This file is located in the LSF_RES_ACCTDIR 
directory. 
.PP
If this parameter is not defined, the Lava administrator must use the 
\fBlsadmin\fR command (see \fBlsadmin\fR(8)) to turn task logging on after RES 
has started up. 
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_RES_ACCTDIR
.SH LSF_RES_ACCTDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_RES_ACCTDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The directory in which the RES task log file lsf.acct.\fIhost_name\fR is 
stored.
.PP
If LSF_RES_ACCTDIR is not defined, the log file is stored in the /tmp 
directory.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
(UNIX)/tmp
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_RES_ACCT
.SH LSF_RES_DEBUG
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_RES_DEBUG=1\fR\fI | \fR\fB2
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Sets RES to debug mode.
.PP
If LSF_RES_DEBUG is defined, the Remote Execution Server (RES) will 
operate in single user mode. No security checking is performed, so RES 
should not run as root. RES will not look in the services database for 
the RES service port number. Instead, it uses port number 36002 unless 
LSF_RES_PORT has been defined. 
.PP
Specify 1 for this parameter unless you are testing RES.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_RES_DEBUG=1
.RE

.IP
RES runs in the background with no associated control terminal. 


.RS
.HP 2
\(bu LSF_RES_DEBUG=2
.RE

.IP
RES runs in the foreground and prints error messages to tty. 


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSF_LIM_DEBUG
.SH LSF_RES_PLUGINDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_RES_PLUGINDIR=\fR\fIpath
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The path to lsbresvcl.so. Used only with SUN HPC.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
$LSF_LIBDIR
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
.SH LSF_RES_PORT
.BR
.PP
.PP
See LSF_LIM_PORT, LSF_RES_PORT, LSB_MBD_PORT, 
LSB_SBD_PORT.
.SH LSF_RES_RLIMIT_UNLIM
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_RES_RLIMIT_UNLIM=cpu\fR | \fBfsize\fR | \fBdata\fR | \fBstack\fR | \fBcore\fR | \fBvmem
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
(Lava Base only) By default, RES sets the hard limits for a remote task 
to be the same as the hard limits of the local process. This parameter 
specifies those hard limits which are to be set to unlimited, instead of 
inheriting those of the local process.
.PP
Valid values are cpu, fsize, data, stack, core, and vmem, for cpu, file 
size, data size, stack, core size, and virtual memory limits, respectively.
.SS Example 
.BR
.PP
.PP
The following example sets the cpu, core size, and stack hard limits to 
be unlimited for all remote tasks:

.PP
LSF_RES_RLIMIT_UNLIM="cpu core stack"


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
.SH LSF_RES_TIMEOUT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_RES_TIMEOUT=\fR\fIseconds\fR 
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Timeout when communicating with RES.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
15
.SH LSF_SERVER_HOSTS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_SERVER_HOSTS="\fR\fIhost_name\fR ...\fB"
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Defines one or more Lava server hosts that the application should 
contact to find a Load Information Manager (LIM). This is used on client 
hosts on which no LIM is running on the local host. The Lava server 
hosts are hosts that run Lava daemons and provide loading-sharing 
services. Client hosts are hosts that only run Lava commands or 
applications but do not provide services to any hosts.
.PP
If LSF_SERVER_HOSTS is not defined, the application tries to contact 
the LIM on the local host. 
.PP
The host names in LSF_SERVER_HOSTS must be enclosed in quotes 
and separated by white space. For example:

.PP
LSF_SERVER_HOSTS="hostA hostD hostB"


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH LSF_SERVERDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_SERVERDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Directory in which all server binaries and shell scripts are installed.
.PP
These include lim, res, nios, sbatchd, mbatchd.
If you use elim, eauth, eexec, 
esub, etc, they are also installed in this directory.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP

.PP
LSF_MACHDEP/etc


.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_ECHKPNT_METHOD_DIR
.SH LSF_STRIP_DOMAIN
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_STRIP_DOMAIN=\fR\fIdomain_suffix\fR [\fB:\fR\fIdomain_suffix ...\fR]
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
(Optional) If all of the hosts in your cluster can be reached using short 
host names, you can configure Lava to use the short host names by 
specifying the portion of the domain name to remove. If your hosts are 
in more than one domain or have more than one domain name, you 
can specify more than one domain suffix to remove, separated by a 
colon (:).
.PP
For example, given this definition of LSF_STRIP_DOMAIN,

.PP
LSF_STRIP_DOMAIN=.foo.com:.bar.com


.PP
Lava accepts hostA, hostA.foo.com, and hostA.bar.com as names 
for host hostA, and uses the name hostA in all output. The leading 
period `.' is required.
.PP
Example:

.PP
LSF_STRIP_DOMAIN=.platform.com:.generic.com


.PP
In the above example, Lava accepts hostA, hostA.platform.com, and 
hostA.generic.com as names for \fBhostA\fR, and uses the name hostA 
in all output.
.PP
Setting this parameter only affects host names displayed through Lava, 
it does not affect DNS host lookup.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined 
.SH LSF_TIME_CMD
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_TIME_CMD=\fR\fItimimg_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timing level for checking how long Lava commands run. Time 
usage is logged in milliseconds; specify a positive integer.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_TIME_MBD, LSB_TIME_SBD, LSB_TIME_CMD, LSF_TIME_LIM, 
LSF_TIME_RES
.SH LSF_TIME_LIM
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_TIME_LIM=\fR\fItiming_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timing level for checking how long LIM routines run.
.PP
Time usage is logged in milliseconds; specify a positive integer.
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_TIME_CMD, LSB_TIME_MBD, LSB_TIME_SBD, LSF_TIME_RES
.SH LSF_TIME_RES
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_TIME_RES=\fR\fItiming_level
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The timing level for checking how long RES routines run.
.PP
Time usage is logged in milliseconds; specify a positive integer.
.SS Default 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_TIME_CMD, LSB_TIME_MBD, LSB_TIME_SBD, LSF_TIME_LIM
.SH LSF_TMPDIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBLSF_TMPDIR=\fR\fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the path and directory for temporary job output.
.PP
When LSF_TMPDIR is defined in lsf.conf, Lava creates a temporary 
directory under the directory specified by LSF_TMPDIR on the 
execution host when a job is started and sets the temporary directory 
environment variable for the job.
.PP
When LSF_TMPDIR is defined as an environment variable, it overrides 
the LSF_TMPDIR specified in lsf.conf. Lava removes the temporary 
directory and the files that it contains when the job completes.
.PP
The name of the temporary directory has the following format:

.PP
$LSF_TMPDIR/job_ID.tmpdir


.PP
On UNIX, the directory has the permission 0700.
.PP
After adding LSF_TMPDIR to lsf.conf, use \fBbadmin hrestart all\fR 
to reconfigure your cluster.
.PP
This parameter can also be specified from the command line.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specify any valid path up to a maximum length 
of 256 characters. The 256 character maximum path length includes the 
temporary directories and files that Lava Batch creates as jobs run. The 
path that you specify for LSF_TMPDIR should be as short as possible 
to avoid exceeding this limit.
.PP
On UNIX, specify an absolute path. For example:

.PP
LSF_TMPDIR=/usr/share/lsf_tmp


.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
By default, LSF_TMPDIR is not enabled. If LSF_TMPDIR is not specified 
either in the environment or in lsf.conf, this parameter is defined as 
follows:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu On UNIX: $TMPDIR or /tmp
.RE
