.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH lsrcp 1 "Lava Version 1.0 - Sept 2007"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBlsrcp\fR - remotely copies files using Lava 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBlsrcp\fR [\fB-a\fR]\fB \fR\fIsource_file\fR\fB \fR\fItarget_file\fR\fB 
\fR.PP
\fBlsrcp\fR [\fB-h | -V\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fB\fRRemotely copies files using Lava.
.PP
lsrcp is an Lava-enabled remote copy program that transfers a single 
file between hosts in an Lava cluster. lsrcp uses RES on an Lava host to 
transfer files. If Lava is not installed on a host or if RES is not running 
then lsrcp uses rcp to copy the file.
.PP
To use lsrcp, you must have read access to the file being copied. 
.PP
Both the source and target file must be owned by the user who issues 
the command. 
.PP
lsrcp uses rcp to copy a source file to a target file owned by another 
user. See rcp(1) and LIMITATIONS below for details. 
.SH OPTIONS
.BR
.PP
.TP 
\fB-a
\fR
.IP
Appends \fIsource_file\fR to \fItarget_file\fR. 


.TP 
\fIsource_file target_file
\fR
.IP
Specify an existing file on a local or remote host that you want to copy, 
and a file to which you want to copy the source file.

.IP
File format is as follows:

.IP
[[\fIuser_name\fR\fB@\fR][\fIhost_name\fR]\fB:\fR][\fIpath\fR\fB/\fR]\fIfile_name\fR 


.IP
\fIuser_name\fR 
.BR
.RS
.IP
Login name to be used for accessing files on the remote host. 
If \fIuser_name\fR is not specified, the name of the user who issued 
the command is used. 

.RE

.IP
\fIhost_name\fR 
.BR
.RS
.IP
Name of the remote host on which the file resides. If 
\fIhost_name\fR is not specified, the local host, the host from which 
the command was issued is used. 

.RE

.IP
\fIpath\fR 
.BR
.RS
.IP
Absolute path name or a path name relative to the login 
directory of the user. Shell file name expansion is not supported 
on either the local or remote hosts. Only single files can be 
copied from one host to another. 

.IP
Use "/" to transfer files from a UNIX host to a UNIX host. For 
example:

.IP
% \fBlsrcp file1 hostD:/home/usr2/test/file2
\fR
.IP
\fIfile_name\fR 
.BR
.RS
.IP
Name of source file. File name expansion is not supported. 

.RE

.TP 
\fB-h
\fR
.IP
Prints command usage to stderr and exits. 


.TP 
\fB-V
\fR
.IP
Prints Lava release version to stderr and exits. 


.SH EXAMPLES
.BR
.PP
.PP
% \fBlsrcp myfile @hostC:/home/usr/dir1/otherfile
\fR.PP
Copies file myfile from the local host to file otherfile on hostC. 
.PP
% \fBlsrcp user1@hostA:/home/myfile user1@hostB:otherfile
\fR.PP
Copies the file myfile from hostA to file otherfile on hostB.
.PP
% \fBlsrcp -a user1@hostD:/home/myfile /dir1/otherfile
\fR.PP
Appends the file myfile on hostD to the file otherfile on the local 
host.
.PP
% \fBlsrcp /tmp/myfile user1@hostF:~/otherfile
\fR.PP
Copies the file myfile from the local host to file otherfile on hostF 
in user1's home directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.PP
rsh(1), rcp(1), lsfintro(1), res(8) 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.BR
.PP
.PP
lsrcp attempts to copy \fIsource_file\fR to \fItarget_file\fR using RES. If RES is 
down or fails to copy the \fIsource_file\fR, lsrcp will use either rsh when 
the -a option is specified, or rcp when -a is not specified. 
.SH LIMITATIONS
.BR
.PP
.PP
File transfer using lscrp is not supported in the following contexts:
.PP
- If Lava account mapping is used; lsrcp fails when running under a 
different user account
.PP
- On Lava client hosts. Lava client hosts do not run RES, so lsrcp cannot 
contact RES on the submission host
.PP
- Third party copies. lsrcp does not support third party copies, when 
neither source nor target file are on the local host. In such a case rcp 
or rsh will be used. If the \fItarget_file\fR exists, lsrcp preserves the 
modes; otherwise, lsrcp uses the \fIsource_file\fR modes modified with the 
umask (see umask(2)) of the source host. 
.PP
You can do the following:
.PP
rcp on UNIX- if lsrcp cannot contact RES on the submission host, it 
attempts to use rcp to copy the file. You must set up the 
/etc/hosts.equiv or HOME/.rhosts file in order to use rcp. See the 
rcp(1) and rsh(1) manual pages for more information on using the 
rcp command.
.PP
You can replace lsrcp with your own file transfer mechanism as long 
as it supports the same syntax as lsrcp. This might be done to take 
advantage of a faster interconnection network, or to overcome 
limitations with the existing lsrcp. SBD looks for the lsrcp 
executable in the LSF_BINDIR directory as specified in the lsf.conf 
file.
.PP
