.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH lsb.params 5 "Lava Version 1.0 - Sept 2007"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBlsb.params\fR
.SS \fB\fROverview
.BR
.PP
.PP
The lsb.params file defines general parameters used by Lava Batch. 
This file contains only one section, named Parameters. MBD uses 
lsb.params for initialization. The file is optional. If not present, the 
Lava-defined defaults are assumed.
.PP
Some of the parameters that can be defined in lsb.params control 
timing within the Lava Batch system. The default settings provide good 
throughput for long-running batch jobs while adding a minimum of 
processing overhead in the batch daemons.
.SS Contents
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Parameters Section
.RE
.SH Parameters Section
.BR
.PP
.PP
This section and all the keywords in this section are optional. If 
keywords are not present, Lava Batch assumes default values for the 
corresponding keywords. The valid keywords for this section are:
.SH ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fIdays
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Enables automatic archiving of Lava accounting log files, and specifies 
the archive interval. Lava archives the current log file if the length of 
time from its creation date exceeds the specified number of days.
.SS See Also 
.BR
.PP
.PP
ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE also enables automatic archiving. 
.PP
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE enables automatic deletion of the 
archives.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined (no limit to the age of lsb.acct).
.SH ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fIkilobytes
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Enables automatic archiving of Lava accounting log files, and specifies 
the archive threshold. Lava archives the current log file if its size exceeds 
the specified number of kilobytes.
.SS See Also 
.BR
.PP
.PP
ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE also enables automatic archiving. 
.PP
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE enables automatic deletion of the 
archives.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined (no limit to the size of lsb.acct).
.SH CLEAN_PERIOD
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBCLEAN_PERIOD\fR \fB=\fR \fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
For non-repetitive jobs, the amount of time that job records for jobs that 
have finished or have been killed are kept in MBD core memory after 
they have finished.
.PP
Users can still see all jobs after they have finished using the \fBbjobs\fR 
command. For jobs that finished more than CLEAN_PERIOD seconds 
ago, use the \fBbhist\fR command.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
3600 (1 hour).
.SH DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBDEFAULT_HOST_SPEC =\fR \fIhost_name | host_model
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The default CPU time normalization host for the cluster.
.PP
The CPU factor of the specified host or host model will be used to 
normalize the CPU time limit of all jobs in the cluster, unless the CPU 
time normalization host is specified at the queue or job level.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH DEFAULT_PROJECT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBDEFAULT_PROJECT\fR \fB=\fR \fIproject_name
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The name of the default project. Specify any string.
.PP
When you submit a job without specifying any project name, and the 
environment variable LSB_DEFAULTPROJECT is not set, Lava 
automatically assigns the job to this project.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
default
.SH DEFAULT_QUEUE
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBDEFAULT_QUEUE\fR \fB=\fR \fIqueue_name \fR...
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Space-separated list of candidate default queues (candidates must 
already be defined in lsb.queues).
.PP
When you submit a job to Lava without explicitly specifying a queue, 
and the environment variable LSB_DEFAULTQUEUE is not set, Lava puts 
the job in the first queue in this list that satisfies the job's specifications 
subject to other restrictions, such as requested hosts, queue status, etc.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined. When a user submits a job to Lava without explicitly 
specifying a queue, and there are no candidate default queues defined 
(by this parameter or by the user's environment variable 
LSB_DEFAULTQUEUE), Lava automatically creates a new queue named 
default, using the default configuration, and submits the job to that 
queue.
.SH DISABLE_UACCT_MAP
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBDISABLE_UACCT_MAP = y | Y
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specify y or Y to disable user-level account mapping.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBJOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL =\fR \fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The number of dispatch turns to wait after dispatching a job to a host, 
before dispatching a second job to the same host. By default, a dispatch 
turn lasts 60 seconds (MBD_SLEEP_TIME in lsb.params).
.PP
If 0 (zero), a host may accept more than one job in each job dispatching 
interval. By default, there is no limit to the total number of jobs that can 
run on a host, so if this parameter is set to 0, a very large number of 
jobs might be dispatched to a host all at once. You may notice 
performance problems if this occurs.
.PP
JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL set at the queue level (lsb.queues) 
overrides JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL set at the cluster level 
(lsb.params).
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
1
.SH JOB_DEP_LAST_SUB
.BR
.PP
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Used only with job dependency scheduling.
.PP
If set to 1, whenever dependency conditions use a job name that 
belongs to multiple jobs, Lava evaluates only the most recently 
submitted job.
.PP
Otherwise, all the jobs with the specified name must satisfy the 
dependency condition.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SH JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP

.PP
\fBJOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME=\fR\fIincrement\fR\fB/\fR\fIinterval
\fR

.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME enables automatic job priority escalation 
when MAX_USER_PRIORITY is also defined.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fIincrement
\fR.IP
Specifies the value used to increase job priority every \fIinterval\fR 
minutes. Valid values are positive integers.

.RE
.PP
\fIinterval
\fR.IP
Specifies the frequency, in minutes, to \fIincrement\fR job priority. 
Valid values are positive integers.

.RE
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME=3/20
.IP
Specifies that every 20 minute \fIinterval\fR \fIincrement\fR to job priority 
of pending jobs by 3.

.RE
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
MAX_USER_PRIORITY
.SH JOB_SPOOL_DIR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBJOB_SPOOL_DIR =\fR \fIdir
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the directory for buffering batch standard output and standard 
error for a job
.PP
When JOB_SPOOL_DIR is defined, the standard output and standard 
error for the job is buffered in the specified directory.
.PP
Except for \fBbsub -is\fR and \fBbsub -Zs\fR, if JOB_SPOOL_DIR is not 
accessible or does not exist, output is spooled to the default job output 
directory .lsbatch.
.PP
For \fBbsub -is\fR and \fBbsub -Zs\fR, JOB_SPOOL_DIR must be readable and 
writable by the job submission user, and it must be shared by the 
master host, the submission host, and the execution host. If the 
specified directory is not accessible or does not exist, \fBbsub -is\fR and 
\fBbsub -Zs\fR cannot write to the default directory and the job will fail.
.PP
As Lava runs jobs, it creates temporary directories and files under 
JOB_SPOOL_DIR. By default, Lava removes these directories and files 
after the job is finished. See \fBbsub\fR(\fB1\fR) for information about job 
submission options that specify the disposition of these files.
.PP
On UNIX, specify an absolute path. For example:

.PP
JOB_SPOOL_DIR=/home/share/lsf_spool

.PP
JOB_SPOOL_DIR can be any valid path up to a 
maximum length of 256 characters. This maximum path length includes 
the temporary directories and files that Lava Batch creates as jobs run. 
The path you specify for JOB_SPOOL_DIR should be as short as 
possible to avoid exceeding this limit.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.PP
Batch job output (standard output and standard error) is sent to the 
.lsbatch directory on the execution host:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu On UNIX: $HOME/.lsbatch
.RE

.IP
If %HOME% is specified in the user environment, uses that 
directory instead of %windir% for spooled output.


.SH JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBJOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL =\fR \fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
UNIX only. 
.PP
Specifies the time interval in seconds between sending SIGINT, 
SIGTERM, and SIGKILL when terminating a job. When a job is 
terminated, the job is sent SIGINT, SIGTERM, and SIGKILL in sequence 
with a sleep time of JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL between sending the 
signals. This allows the job to clean up if necessary.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
10
.SH MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE 
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE=\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description 
.BR
.PP
.PP
Enables automatic deletion of archived Lava accounting log files and 
specifies the archive limit.
.SS Compatibility
.BR
.PP
.PP
ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE or ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE should also be 
defined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE=10


.PP
Lava maintains the current lsb.acct and up to 10 archives. Every time 
the old lsb.acct.9 becomes lsb.acct.10, the old lsb.acct.10 
gets deleted.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined (no deletion of lsb.acct.\fIn\fR files).
.SH MAX_JOB_ARRAY_SIZE
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_JOB_ARRAY_SIZE =\fR \fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Specifies the maximum index value of a job array that can be created 
by a user for a single job submission. The maximum number of jobs in 
a job array cannot exceed this value, and will be less if some index 
values are not used (start, end, and step values can all be used to limit 
the indices used in a job array).
.PP
A large job array allows a user to submit a large number of jobs to the 
system with a single job submission.
.PP
Specify an integer value from 1 to 65534.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
1000
.SH MAX_JOBID
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_JOBID=\fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The job ID limit. The job ID limit is the highest job ID that Lava will ever 
assign, and also the maximum number of jobs in the system.
.PP
Specify any integer from 999999 to 9999999 (for practical purposes, any 
seven-digit integer).
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
MAX_JOBID=1234567
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
999999
.SH MAX_JOB_NUM
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_JOB_NUM\fR \fB=\fR \fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The maximum number of finished jobs whose events are to be stored 
in the lsb.events log file.
.PP
Once the limit is reached, MBD starts a new event log file. The old 
event log file is saved as lsb.events.\fIn\fR, with subsequent sequence 
number suffixes incremented by 1 each time a new log file is started. 
Event logging continues in the new lsb.events file.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
1000
.SH MAX_SBD_FAIL
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_SBD_FAIL = \fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The maximum number of retries for reaching a non-responding slave 
batch daemon, SBD.
.PP
The interval between retries is defined by MBD_SLEEP_TIME. If MBD 
fails to reach a host and has retried MAX_SBD_FAIL times, the host is 
considered unavailable. When a host becomes unavailable, MBD 
assumes that all jobs running on that host have exited and that all 
rerunnable jobs (jobs submitted with the \fBbsub\fR \fB-r\fR option) are 
scheduled to be rerun on another host.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
3
.SH MAX_SBD_CONNS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_SBD_CONNS = \fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The maximum number of files mbatchd can have open and connected 
to sbatchd
.SH MAX_SCHED_STAY
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_SCHED_STAY = \fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The time in seconds the mbatchd has for scheduling pass.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
3
.SH MAX_USER_PRIORITY
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMAX_USER_PRIORITY=\fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Enables user-assigned job priority and specifies the maximum job 
priority a user can assign to a job.
.PP
Lava administrators can assign a job priority higher than the specified 
value.
.SS Compatibility
.BR
.PP
.PP
User-assigned job priority changes the behavior of \fBbtop\fR and \fBbbot\fR.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP

.PP
MAX_USER_PRIORITY=100


.PP
Specifies that 100 is the maximum job priority that can be specified by 
a user.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
.PP
.PP
bsub, bmod, btop, bbot, JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME
.SH MBD_SLEEP_TIME
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBMBD_SLEEP_TIME =\fR \fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The job dispatching interval; how often Lava tries to dispatch pending 
jobs.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
60
.SH PG_SUSP_IT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBPG_SUSP_IT =\fR \fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The time interval that a host should be interactively idle (it > 0) before 
jobs suspended because of a threshold on the pg load index can be 
resumed.
.PP
This parameter is used to prevent the case in which a batch job is 
suspended and resumed too often as it raises the paging rate while 
running and lowers it while suspended. If you are not concerned with 
the interference with interactive jobs caused by paging, the value of 
this parameter may be set to 0.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
180 (seconds)
.SH SBD_SLEEP_TIME
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBSBD_SLEEP_TIME =\fR \fIseconds
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
The interval at which Lava checks the load conditions of each host, to 
decide whether jobs on the host must be suspended or resumed.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
30
.SH SHARED_RESOURCE_UPDATE_FACTOR
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBSHARED_RESOURCE_UPDATE_FACTOR = \fR\fIinteger
\fR.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Determines the static shared resource update interval for the cluster.
.PP
Specify approximately how many times to update static shared 
resources during one MBD sleep time period. The formula is:
.PP
\fIinterval\fR = MBD_SLEEP_TIME / 
SHARED_RESOURCE_UPDATE_FACTOR
.PP
where the result of the calculation is truncated to an integer. The static 
shared resource update interval is in seconds.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined (all resources are updated only once, at the start of each 
dispatch turn).
.PP
